----> Docker:-
	1)Docker is an open-source centralised platform designed to create,deploy and run applications.
	2)It uses container on host OS and run applications. It allows to use the same linux kernel as 
	a system on the hostcomputer,rether than creating a whole virtual OS.
	3) We can install docker on any OS but docker engine runs natively on linux distribution.
	4) It is written in go language.
	5) Docker was first release in march 2013. It is developed by Solomon Hykes and Sebastien Pahl.
	7) Docker is a tool that performs OS level virtualisation, also known as containerisation.
	8) Before docker, many users face the problem that a particular code is running in the developer's system but not in the user's system.
	9) Docker ia a set of platform as a service that uses OS level Virtualization whereas VMware uses hardware and virtualization.
----> Advantages of Docker:-
	1) No pre-Allocation of RAM
	2) CI Efficiency- Docker enables to build a container image and use that same image across every
	step of the deplotment process.
	3) Less Cost
	4) It is light Weight.
	5) It can run on physical H/W, virtual H/W or on cloud.
	6) You can reuse the image.
	7) It took very less time to run container.

----> Disadvantages of docker:-
	1) Docker is not a good solution for application that requires ricg GUI.
	2) Difficult to manage large amount of containers.
	3) Doocker does not provide cross platform compatibility means if the application is designed to run in a docker
	container on windows, then it can't run on linux or vice-versa.
	4) Docker is suitable when the development Operating System and testing operating system is different, it should use VM.
	5) No solution for Data Recovery & Backup.

----> Components of Docker:-
	1) Docker Daemon:- 
		Docker Daemon runs on the host OS.
		It is responsibel for running Containers and to manages docker service.
		Docker Daemon can Communicate with other daemons.
	2) Docker Client:-
		Docker users can interact with docker through a client.
		Docker client uses Commands and REST API ti communicate with the docker daemon.
		When a client runs any server command on the docker client terminal, the client terminal sends these docker commands to the docker daemon.
		It is possible for docker client to communicate with more than one daemon.
	3) Docker Host:-
		Docker Host is used to provide an environment to execute and run applications.
		It contains the docker daemon, docker images, docker containers, Docker networs and storages.
	4) Docker Hub/Registry:-
		There are two types of registries in the docker:-
		a) Public Registry- Public Registry is also called as Docker Hub.
		b) Private Registry- It is used to share images within the enterprise.
	5) Docker Images:-
		Docker images are the ready only binary templates used to create docker container.
		single File with all dependencies and Configuration required to run a program.
	6) Ways to create a image:-
		a) Take image from docker hub
		b) Create image from docker file.
		c) Create image from existing docker containers.

----> Dockerfile:-
	Dockerfile is basically a text file. It contains some set of instruction.
	It is used in automation of docker image creation.
	Dockerfile Components:-
	FROM = For base image, this command must be at the top of the dockerfile.
	RUN = To execute commands, it will create a layer in image
	MAINTAINER = Author/Owner/Description
	COPY = Copy files from local system, we need to provide source, destination(we can't download file from internet and any remote repo.
	ADD = Similar to COPY but, it provides a feature to download files from internet, alse we extract file at docker image side.
	EXPOSE = To expose ports such as port 8080 for tomcat,port 80 for nginx, etc
	WORKDIR = To set working directory for a contianer.
	CMD = Execute commands but during container creation.
	ENTRYPOINT = Similar to CMD, but has higher priority over CMD, first commands will be executed.
	ENV = Environment Variables.
	VOLUME = Attach volume inside a container

----> Docker Volume:-
	1) Volume is simply a directory inside a container
	2) firstly, one have to declare the directory as a volume and than share volume.
	3) Even if we stop container, still we cann access volume
	4) volume will be created in one container
	5) You can declare a directory as a volume only while creating container
	6) you can't create volume from existing container.
	7) You can share one volume across number of container.
	7) Volume will not be included when you update an image.
	8) One can map volume in two ways:-
		container----container
		Host-----container

----> Benefits of Volume:-
	1)Decoupling Container from storage
	2)Share volume among different Containers.
	3)Attach Volume to Container.
	4)On deleting container, volume doesnot delete.

----> Difference between docker attach and docker exec?
	1)Docker exec creates a new process in the container environment while docker attach just connect the standard input/output
	of the main process inside the container to corresponding standard input/output error of current terminal.
	2)Docker exec is specifically for new things in an already running container, be it a shell or some other process.

----> What is the difference between expose and publish a docker?
	Basically we have three options-
		a) Neither specify expose nor -p
		b) Only specify expose
		c) specify expose and -p
	1) If one specify neither expose nor -p, the service in the container will only be accessible from inside the container.
	2) If you expose a port, the service in the container is not accessible from outside but from inside other docker container
	so this is good for inter-container communication.
	3) If one expose and -p a port, the service in the container from anywhere,even outside container.
		Note:- If one do -p bu do not expose docker does an implicit expose. This is because, if a port is open to the public,
		it is automatically also open to the docker containers. Hence, -p includes expose.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
